# Mundari TTS Dataset Corpus

This dataset contains 26,870 recordings of Mundari speech, spoken by two different speakers (one female and one male). It is released under the non-commercial version of the Karya Public License. Please read the "License" section below for a high-level summary of what you are allowed and not allowed to do under this license. This corpus was created by Microsoft Research India, the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, and Karya in collaboration with the project of Indo-German Development Cooperation “FAIR Forward – Artificial Intelligence for all”. FAIR Forward is being implemented by Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) on behalf of the Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ).

## Data Description

The Mundari TTS dataset corpus contains a total of 26,870 audio files, each containing a single utterance spoken by one of the two speakers. The audio is recorded in 32-bit PCM format with a sampling rate of 44.1 kHz. The dataset includes transcripts for each audio file in Mundari script. The recordings were collected in a sound-treated room using a high-quality microphone and preamp.

## Speakers

The Mundari TTS dataset corpus includes recordings from two different speakers: a female speaker and a male speaker. The female speaker contributed 19,868 recordings, while the male speaker contributed 7,002 recordings.

The total size of the corpus is approximately 17 GB (7 GB compressed). Therefore, the full dataset is hosted in cloud storage (instead of this github repository). This repository contains a sample of 100 recordings from each speaker. Please email data@karya.in for a link to download the full dataset.

## Contents

The repository contains the following files:

1. `README.md` - This file.

2. `LICENSE.txt` - The full text of the license under with this dataset is released.

3. `COPYRIGHT.txt` - Copyright for the dataset.

4. `data-sample.tgz` - Sample data folder. It contains two subfolders: `female` and `male`. Each subfolder contains the 100 audio recordings. For each audio recording `[X].wav`, there is a corresponding `[X].txt` that contains the transcript for that recording.

5. `dataset-mundari-tts-full.sha1` - SHA1 sum for the full dataset

## Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike-FreeSoftware (BY-NC-SA-FS) 1.0

This license allows reusers to distribute, remix, adapt, build upon, and incorporate into software systems, the material in any medium or format for _noncommercial purposes only_, and only so long as attribution is given to the creator. If you remix, adapt, build upon, or incorporate into software systems, you must license the modified material, including material generated by the software system, under identical terms, and license the software system under the GNU General Public License.

BY-NC-SA-FS includes the following elements:

- BY – Credit must be given to the creator
- NC – Only noncommercial uses of the work are permitted
- SA – Adaptations must be shared under the same terms
- FS – Incorporating software must be shared under the GNU General Public License

> This is a human-readable summary of (and not a substitute for) the license.
>
> ## You are free to:
>
> **Share** — copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format
>
> **Adapt** — remix, transform, and build upon the material
>
> **Incorporate** — provide the material to a software system
>
> The licensor cannot revoke these freedoms as long as you follow the license terms.
>
> ## Under the following terms:
>
> **Attribution** — You must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.
>
> **NonCommercial** — You may not use the material for commercial purposes.
>
> **ShareAlike** — If you remix, transform, build upon the material, or generate new material using software that incorporates the material, you must distribute your contributions under the same license as the original.
>
> **FreeSoftware** — If you incorporate the material into a software system, you must license the software under the GNU General Public License.
>
> No additional restrictions — You may not apply legal terms or technological measures that legally restrict others from doing anything the license permits.
>
> ## Notices:
>
> You do not have to comply with the license for elements of the material in the public domain or where your use is permitted by an applicable exception or limitation.
>
> No warranties are given. The license may not give you all of the permissions necessary for your intended use. For example, other rights such as publicity, privacy, or moral rights may limit how you use the material.
